<h1>Training, Support, and Consulting</h1>
Below are companies and universities that are licensed OpenStudio training and support organizations. Licensed commercial organizations have been trained directly by the OpenStudio development team and have access to NREL's training material. For information on becoming a licensed training organization please see the [RFP summary](https://www.fbo.gov/index?s=opportunity&mode=form&id=bbae6db5465c03b0dd92601b6f200e83&tab=core&_cview=1).

##Commercial Organizations

### [Bigg Ladder Software](http://bigladdersoftware.com/) - Denver, CO
####Contact: [Peter Ellis](mailto:peter.ellis@bigladdersoftware.com)
Big Ladder Software is dedicated to providing software and services for the building energy modeling industry. The company provides training, support, software development, and consulting services for OpenStudio and EnergyPlus to mechanical, architectural, and design engineering firms across the US. With a unique combination of expertise in building science, computer simulation, and programming, Big Ladder has experienced steady growth and achieved significant success and recognition in the industry.

Big Ladder offers in-person public and private (in-house) training workshops for OpenStudio and EnergyPlus. The Big Ladder team has trained scores of new users in the intricacies of energy modeling software in workshops at US and international locations. The company also offers hourly support services by phone and email. Support includes advising on best practices for modeling, helping with writing OpenStudio “measures”, helping with the implementation of difficult HVAC systems or controls, debugging stubborn errors, checking models for correctness and quality assurance, and assistance with auxiliary software tools. As part of the EnergyPlus Development Team, Big Ladder provides deep insight into the simulation engine "under the hood" of OpenStudio.

### [Performance Systems Development](http://psdconsulting.com/training/#engineer) - Ithaca, NY
####Contact: [Chris Balbach](mailto:cbalbach@psdconsulting.com)
Performance Systems Development (PSD) is a 15 year old technology enabled consulting firm that provides training, consulting, software enabled solution design, and implementation support to utilities, efficiency program implementers, energy service professionals, and building portfolio owners. PSD's clients include some of the largest utilities and efficiency program implementers in country. PSD staff have deep subject matter expertise, offer industry leadership and support key efficiency enabling standards in building science, energy simulation, measurement& verification, evaluation and energy efficiency data management. PSD is highly regarded for efficiency industry professional workforce development and delivers third party certification training on a range of topics. PSD's program implementation team supports market transforming efficiency program design and cost effective implementation and are responsible for industry changing program models that leverage market investments and drive investment in building performance.

## Universities

### [The City College of New York](http://www.ccny.cuny.edu/sustainability/) - New York, NY
####Contact: [Nicholas Madamopulos](mailto:nmadamopoulos@ccny.cuny.edu)
The City College of New York (CCNY), founded in 1847, is a flagship college of The City University of New York (CUNY) system. CCNY is a comprehensive teaching, research, and service institution dedicated to accessibility and excellence in undergraduate and graduate education. CCNY offers a wide range of degrees related to engineering, architecture and science with focus on energy, sustainability and the environment. The Grove School of Engineering is active in Research and Training of graduate and undergraduate students. The Grove School of Engineering and The Bernard and Anne Spitzer School of Architecture offer a graduate program in "Sustainability in the Urban Environment"?. The program offers an interdisciplinary MS in Sustainability with two concentrations: an Architecture concentration suitable for students with backgrounds in architecture; and an Engineering-Science concentration appropriate for engineering or science majors. The overall aim of the program is to develop a workforce with the knowledge and skills that 21st century workplaces will increasingly demand, i.e., to enable them to be innovative and flexible contributors to sustainability solutions.

As New York City's only public university, CUNY has a special role to play in helping to meet the city's needs. The Building Performance Lab-CUNY, is ideally positioned and equipped to serve as a catalyst for change. Through collaborations with other parties, the BP lab works to accelerate market transformation in the buildings sector. The Lab's multi-track approach also includes stimulating applied research, promoting technology transfer, and conducting outreach to the real estate sector to raise awareness of sustainability goals and how they can be achieved. One focus of our work is greening existing commercial properties by promoting advanced building system technologies and best practices that reduce energy use and improve indoor environmental conditions and waste management practices. Greater tenant satisfaction is one result.A crucial best practice is the monitoring and verification that ensure that, once achieved, optimum building performance is maintained. Another focus of our work is long-term workforce development, which we pursue through curriculum development, internships, and other technology training.

### [The University of Texas at Tyler](http://www.uttyler.edu/me/) - Tyler, TX
####Contact: [Nelson Fumo, PhD](mailto:nfumo@uttyler.edu)
The University of Texas at Tyler Department of Mechanical Engineering provides engineering education needed for the development of a professional career in a variety of industrial and business operations, from large corporations and government organizations to small consulting firms. OpenStudio is taught in the technical elective course Introduction to Building Energy Simulation.
